Tolowercase (#1580)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/strings/terms/toLoweCase/toLowerCase.md

---
Title: '.toLowerCase()'
Description: 'Converts a string to lowercase characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn java'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.toLowerCase()`** method converts all the characters of a string to lowercase characters in Java.

> **Note:** This method is locale sensitive, in consequence it might produce unexpected results because it takes into account the user's locale, particularly when the string represents locale-specific values, e.g. date or time.

## Syntax

> ```java

Author: Hi! Thanks for your revision. I'm not sure I understand this comment. Everywhere I look they have this as syntax for the method: public String toLowerCase(). Should I just copy your suggestion (lowerCaseString = upperCaseString.toLowerCase();) and say that `lowerCaseString` stands for a string with lowercase characters and 'upperCaseString` stands for a string with some uppercase characters that will be converted?

> ```java

Reviewer: @M3RF3R yes, if you could do that please.

> ```java

Author: Is this correct?

public String toLowerCase();
```

## Example 

> Converting uppercase characters to lowercase characters:

Author: done

---
Title: '.toLowerCase()'
Description: 'Converts a string to lowercase characters.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Characters'
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
CatalogContent:

>   - 'learn java'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'learn-java'
```

Author: done

  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.toLowerCase()`** method converts all the characters of a string to lowercase characters in Java.

> **Note:** This method is locale sensitive, in consequence it might produce unexpected results because it takes into account the user's locale, particularly when the string represents locale-specific values, e.g. date or time.

## Syntax

```java

> lowerCaseString = upperCaseString.toLowerCase();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
upperCaseString.toLowerCase();
```

```

> Where `lowerCaseString` is the string with all lower case characters and `upperCaseString` is the string with some or all upper case characters that will be converted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Where `upperCaseString` is the string with some or all upper case characters to be converted.
```

Author: done

## Example 

This example converts uppercase characters to lowercase characters:

> ```java

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```java
// Example.java

```

Author: done
